.TH FIELD "1" "March 2015" "field 0.1.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
\fBfield\fR \- extract fields from a file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B field
[\fB\-f\fR \fIFILE\fR] [\fB\-d\fR \fIDELIMITER\fR] [\fIFIELD\fR \fI...\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fBfield\fR extracts a list of fields from a file. It is a simpler
version of:
.IP
awk '{ print $5,$3,$1; }'
.PP
and similar scripts. Whitespace delimited (space and tab) fields are
read from \fIstdin\fR and written to \fIstdout\fR.

\fIFIELD\fR is assumed to be 1-indexed integer, separated by commas
and/or spaces, and take the following form:
.RS
.TP
N
a single field.
.TP
N-M
a range of increasing or decreasing fields from N to M.
.RE
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show concise list of options and exit
.TP
\fB\-\-version\fR
display version information and exit
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-file\fR \fIFILE\fR
an explicit file to extract fields
.TP
\fB\-d\fR, \fB\-\-delimiter\fR \fIDELIMITER\fR
character delimiter between fields
.SH NOTES
Field was written to address two short comings of cut:
.TP
\fB1.\fR Default Behavior
The default delimiter of cut is tab. Most command line utilities produce
output delimited by whitespace, which includes spaces. Field takes this
into account and defaults the delimiter to both tab and space
characters.
.TP
\fB2.\fR Field Ordering
Fields extracted by cut are not listed in the order they are passed.
.SH EXAMPLES
.nf
.B $ mount | field 5 3 1
ext4 / /dev/mapper/sda7_crypt
proc /proc proc
sysfs /sys sysfs

.B $ ls -l /usr/local/bin/ | field 1 9
\-rwxr\-xr\-x airbrake*
\-rwxr\-xr\-x bayes.rb*
\-rwxr\-xr\-x bourbon*

.B $ cat /etc/mtab | cut -d' ' -f 4 | field -d',' 1 4 3 2
rw gid=5 nosuid noexec
rw size=10% nosuid noexec
rw nodev nosuid noexec
rw user=root nodev nosuid
.fi
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Trevor Bramwell.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2015 Trevor Bramwell
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
